# The Deploying of

So, this website is technically, quite simple. Vanilla JavaScript, CSS, [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/). etc. But...

Let's say I wasted some time trying to figure out why my domain wasn't redirected to my actual website, so I just broke it down in simple steps just in case it helps a lost soul out there.

## 0. Self imposed requirements

Some of the self-required premises were:

1. Everything must run clientside: no DB, no APIs, no server-side rendering, etc.
2. Content managed as plain markdown files, so I can use my favorite desktop editor ([Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/) maybe).
3. No Jekyll, no Hugo, no Pandadoc...Because potatoes. I want to serve the raw markdown files.
4. Cheap hosting. Free hosting is better.
5. Zero Effort publishing content or updating / fixing the web.

To achieve the first two points, I've chosen [MDWiki](http://mdwiki.info/), `...a CMS/Wiki completely built in HTML5/Javascript and runs 100% on the client`. So, with just a folder of markdown files, a config file and a TOC file, you're done. Everything you can see in the `content` area of **nimbi** is managed and client-side rendered by a tweaked version of MDWiki. And then, it's wrapped in crazy CSS / JS stuff just for the sake of the game 😅

The hosting... After some ping-pong, I rounded it to 3 candidates:

* [OVH Cloud](https://www.ovhcloud.com/es-es/web-hosting/): ~ 14€/year, but includes email adress, Worpress, MySQL,...
* [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/pricing/): Free
* [GitHub Pages](https://docs.github.com/en/pages): Free

I don't need any fancy feature, just plain hosting. And my code is already living in GitHub so... Easy decision.

Now, let's go. My starting point:

* My GitHub user is like `gh_user`
* The code lives at GitHUb, in a repo called like `myweb_source`
* I have a parked domain like `myweb.com`

Note: One of my own requirements is that I don't want to make `myweb_source` repository public, because I want to be able to work on it or on an article, and choose the right moment it's made public, by publishing.

The voyage was a bit bumpy and the documentation was a but missleading sometimes, so there you have a step-by-step, straightforward recap

## 1. Create the public repo

First step, let's create a public repo to be the one published, so, you can create it using GitHub web front, or, from your `myweb_source` folder, you can run the next batch file to set that new `myweb_public` repo

```bash
#!/bin/bash
cd ..
rm -rf myweb_public
mkdir -p myweb_public
cd myweb_public
git init
echo 'Hellow world!' > index.html
git add .
git commit -m "initial-commit"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin git@github.com:gh_user/myweb_public.git
git remote -v
git pull
git push -u origin main
cd ../myweb_source
```

## 2. Verify your domain at GitHub

Note: When you verify a custom domain for your personal account, only repositories owned by your personal account may be used to publish a GitHub Pages site to the verified custom domain or the domain's immediate subdomains.

Easy peasy, just follow [these instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/configuring-a-custom-domain-for-your-github-pages-site/verifying-your-custom-domain-for-github-pages#verifying-a-domain-for-your-user-site)

Hint: Verify your APEX domain, `myweb.com`, no subdomains. Not even `www`.

## 3. Assign your domain to your public GitHub repo

Follow [these instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/configuring-a-custom-domain-for-your-github-pages-site/managing-a-custom-domain-for-your-github-pages-site#configuring-an-apex-domain) to add **your APEX domain** to `myweb_public` repo.

Warning: You might need to delete any pre-existing `A` DNS record of your domain if it was parked.

Now, your `myweb_public` repo has a new `CNAME` ASCII file within, which content is just `myweb.com`. Do not mind that file, but let it be.

Hint: remember to enable `Enforce HTTPS ` in the Pages settings of the public repo

Let's open your favourite browser and go to `https://myweb.com`, you should see `Hello world!` message.

## 4. The code

I use [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) for all my web-related needs, so we need to verify the destination folder of the bundled stuff. By Vite default, the output folder is `dist`, I want to deploy the contents of that folder

We are gonna use [gh-pages](https://github.com/tschaub/gh-pages) module to ease the deployment, so let's add it as a dev dependency:

```bash
npm install gh-pages --save-dev
```

As I'm using Vanilla JS for my projects, my `package.json` needs just one new script, let's call it `deploy`:

```bash
gh-pages -d dist -b main --cname myweb.com -r git@github.com:gh_user/myweb_public.git
```

Let's break it down:

* `-d`: The folder from the private repo to be deployed to the public repo. So, do not forget to run `npm run build` before deploying or you will be publishing the very same version is actually published.
* `-b`: The branch in the public repo, should be the same you set up in the `Pages` settings of the public repo
* `--cname`: The custom domain. It will overwrite the CNAME file in the public repo, so you can play with this as a parameter if needed
* `-r`: The git address of the public repo

So, to build and deploy a new version of your web, you just need to:

```bash
npm run build && npm run deploy
```

And some seconds later, the changes are available at `myweb.com`.

Enjoy!


## Final note

At the end of it all, the problem with the redirection was caused by an stupid, domain registrar created, `ANAME` DNS record that was messing with every other record.
